https://www.invest-visa.com/Post/400695/Immigration-News/How-to-move-to-Canada-from-the-Middle-East?AspxAutoDetectCookieSupport=1#1
Middle East community. (n.d.). https://www.calgary.ca/cps/community-programs-and-resources/diversity-resources/middle-east-community.html

1. Cultural Guides

  Traditions:
    Holidays and Celebrations:
        Thanksgiving, etc.

  Cuisine:
    Very culturally diverse

2. Finding Communities

    MRU International Student Support Centre:
https://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/InternationalEducation/international-student-support-centre/index.htm

    MRU International Student Club
https://samru.ca/club/international-student-club/

3. Language Learning Tools for Arabic, Persian, and Turkish

Apps:
    Duolingo
    Rosetta Stone

Youtube Videos:
    Learn English with EnglishClass101.com

Dictionary and Translation Apps:
    Google Translate
    Oxford English Dictiontary

Other Ideas:
    Language Exchange Platform
    Books and Study Material
    Language Learning Podcasts

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Crossing cultures, MRU chapter

Introduction 
No matter your background, immigration to Canada is a difficult procedure. At Crossing Cultures, our goal is to make that process easier for you! We'll show you the cultural etiquettes, direct you to support communities, and provide resources to help your transition. 

Cultural Guides:
“When in Rome, do as Romans do”

Learning cultural etiquettes of Canada is not only polite, but a great way to feel integrated into Canadian society. Simple gestures can show your dedication to adapting to a new culture. We’ll have a list of some common actions to help you get started.

Canadian Etiquette:

A cultural shock to some, but a normal conversation for Canadians is the act of thanking your bus driver as you get off the bus. To thank a driver for a safe drive to their destination, Canadians say a hearty “Thank you” as they exit the bus. Occasionally, the bus driver wishes the passengers a good day as a way of returning the favor. It is considered rude if you don’t thank the bus driver prior to leaving the bus. So next time you get off public transit, don’t forget to say a heartfelt “Thank you!”

Another important aspect to remember is how to act during snow days. If your house is in front of the sidewalk, it is customary to shovel the sidewalk in front of your house. By making a cleared path on the sidewalk, other people are able to walk without getting snow in their boots. Not only is your sidewalk cleared, these little acts of kindness make Canadian snow days a bit more bearable during the winter.

Finding Communities:

In order to make you feel comfortable in this new environment, we have gathered some useful resources to help you find support from similar communities.

Looking for professional help? Head over to the International Student Support Centre (ISSC)! Located in EB3005, the academic advisors at ISCC are available to help global students. From peer support to consultings prior to your arrival to MRU, ISCC has got you covered!

If academic offices are too intimidating for you, check out the International Student Club! Run by the students of MRU, this club is a great way to make connections with your fellow students.
Located in E140, the International Student Club aims to provide a safe space for international and domestic students to engage with each other. Often hosting social events, the International Student Club is the perfect place to feel the spirit of the MRU community.

Luggage learning tools
Arguably, the best way to become integrated with a country is to learn its language. In this section, we provided resources to help with your English education.

Apps

One of the most widely known free language apps is Duolingo. 
With the option to leisurely learn the language with low commitment or have intense 30 minute sessions, Duolingo offers a flexible schedule to meet your learning needs.

Now if you are dedicated to learning English at a quicker pace, we recommend Rosetta Stone as your online teacher of choice. A fast paced curriculum that is for the motivated, you get your money’s worth with Rosetta Stone. With a 3 Month, 12 Month, and Lifetime subscription, Rosetta stones offers linguistic challenges to strengthen your mind.
                     

